This is a presentation of a three-part series, recorded at Padma Samye Ling Monastery and Retreat
Center on April 8, 2008.
This is the second part of a three-part series, recorded at Padma Samye Ling Monastery and Retreat
This is the third part of a three-part series, recorded at Padma Samye Ling Monastery and Retreat
Center on April 8, 2008.
And again, this is the creation stage or the visualization stage that is generally mainly
explaining or the teaching that emphasizing all this visualization or the creation stage.
That means to bring the vividly natural of this appearing aspect of the nature, kind of mainly that
explaining that.
So appearing, all this appearing or the perceptions, the conceptions, all this is originally
enlightened state.
And to see that as it is, explaining that mainly this focus therefore is known as the creation
stages.
It doesn't mean that it don't have the complete stages.
It doesn't mean it has the great complete stage, such as the Zokki teachings.
But it is only just mainly focus, focus that.
And then such as the completion stages of Anu Yova teaching, it also means there is two different
complete stages as you know.
The characterized complete stages and then non-characterized complete stages.
Or the completion stages could be characterized that mainly deals with the visual or physical
structure of the inner in kind of system of the natures with things like the channels, the winds,
and as well as their movement.
And that is as kind of the nature explaining exactly as it is revealing that it is authentic nature
, natural.
And that which explaining very thoroughly, dutifully, and that is known as the completion stage of
the characterized.
And then complete stage without characterized is beyond the consumption, beyond the mind as Zokki
teachings.
So this Anu Yova teaching also does not mean that I don't have any visualization or the teachings
of the Anu Mahayoga teachings as well as the Ati Yova teachings.
It has all that but it more that we are more focused on the teachings of the, specifically the
inner structure of the regular body and to revealing it is innate nature as it is.
And then Zokki teaching which is the same day teaching, same day teaching also contains the Mahay
oga teaching and as well as Anu Yova teaching.
But the Zokki teaching more focused than the self-born awareness wisdom or the self-born primordial
wisdom.
That is more kind of focused on that and then all others are coming on this as a side, part of the
side.
Therefore, then Zokki is often known as the Jhana, that which is beyond the mind because the self-
born primordial wisdom is the ordinary nature that which is beyond the conception, beyond the dual
ity, beyond any kind of idea and thought.
For that reason, then this is often said that is not really the Jhana, it is the Buddhahood.
It is the old universal state. So therefore, often it is beyond the Jhana, beyond any character
states. That is what is said.
But however, it also doesn't mean that all other teachings are not contained within the Zokki
teaching.
All the teachings are there and that is generally not just only three.
There are two inner Tantra, such as Mahayoga, Anu Yoga, but the Zokki teaching contains all other J
hana teachings that start from the Hinayana or such as Kya Rokayana, Pathik Bodhayana and Bodhisatt
va Yanas and as well as the outer Tantra, such as Kriya or Bhaayoga.
So, all those Tantra kind of emerges, fills, then the ultimate state of true nature because all
those teachings are the teachings of the true nature,
teachings that will discover this inner nature and bring the Buddhahood.
Therefore, the direction and the system and the nature that all teaching agree to the one single
state which is beyond the duality, beyond the conception,
beyond any conception or the emotion, that is the teaching agree and therefore, Zokki teaching is
the ultimate teaching.
Therefore, all teaching falls within this single state.
♪ So let's do what I do ♪